---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: E4: My Progress in Programming
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-04-06
labels:
---


First of all, I would probably only marginally agree that my programming skills have improved, I am still struggling with some of the more complicated javascript that we have learned so far, such as functions and loops. I could handle the HTML and CSS but trying to think through functions and algorithms was a real struggle, especially when everything I would try wouldn't work how I wanted it to. I eventually just had to spend a ton of time on google trying to understand what I was doing. I definitely need to work on improving my programming skills by just being more comfortable with functions and algorithms and understanding what exactly each line of code I need to type is supposed to do. 

I could do most of the WODs without looking at the screencast until we got to the later ones. Even then I could do most of it and would get stuck towards the end and needed a little help from the screencast. I would agree that the labs have been a huge help in getting me to understand the material. I feel comfortable doing them and using the skills gained from doing them in the assignments.

I do not think I am ready for the next step just quite yet since I have completed assignment 1 and it took me quite a bit of effort to understand what I was doing. 

I would say the class could be improved by me just spending more time reading up on functions, loops, etc and getting more familiar with them. I think maybe the class moved a little too fast for my taste but overall I think the class has been preparing me well.

What works well for me in this class is watching the class recordings and screencasts when I am struggling. It helps to go back and listen to something be explained multiple times until I finally understand.
