---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-04-30

1. Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details
  Assignment 2 was to create a basic file I/O system on our web site. This was done by providing a registration page for new users to register their information and continue on to their purchase. Also returning users were able to log in, have their info checked on the server and then allowed to continue to their invoice. link to E5 page
  <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html"> Click here</a>
  
  
2. What did you learn from this assignment?
  I learned the that I don't manage my time well and that I need to spend more time learning javascript. Besides that I learned how the server works to manage communication with the client. Also how to set up a basic database to allow for data to be added to it from a user.


3. Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).
  I did not work with a partner on this assignment.
  
  
4.How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?
  I looked up help on google, I watched the class recordings multiple times and went back to my labs to see what I could use from them. I also met with Prof. Port who helped me when I got stuck at the beginning of Assignment 2.
  
  
5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?
   This assignment was different because it focused more time on the functionality of the site as opposed to the design I guess. More time was spent trying to get certain features to work such as keeping the quantity data across multiple pages and getting the registration page to create a new entry in the user_data.json file.


6. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging
  a.60%
  b.10%
  c.30%
  Most of my time was spend on trying to understand what I needed to do and how to do it. After I got some code written I then spent the majority of the time left just fine tuning it and getting it to work like I wanted to.
  
  
7. Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?
What worked well was following the labs and using those as inpsiration for the server side of things, such as the validation, and processing the login and registrations. What didn't work well was me thinking that I could do this assignment in a day and not get stuck on anything. I had the biggest issue with trying to get my quantity data from the order page, and have it stay on the login page, and also the registration page if the user needed to do so.


8. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?
  I would have started earlier and I would have rewatched the class recordings sooner. I would also have asked for help from Professor Port a lot sooner but I wanted to try to figure out my problem on my own.
