---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: UI Basics Technical Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-01-31
labels:
  - 
---

So basically with BrowserHistory1, I just tried to go through all the steps on my own first, without recording anything, to see how far I could get without needing to look up something. When I got to step 5, I couldn't remember exactly how to insert a link, so I looked that up on W3schools.com, which is a super helpful website when you need just a small reminder on which tags to use for something. After looking that up, I finished the WOD, then deleted everything I did. I then set up my screencast and recorded my first attempt, I struggled halfway through, forgetting something minor, and decided to start over. I did a second attempt and this was the one I ended saving and finished in less than 15 minutes. I then watched the solution screencast to make sure I did everything properly. For this first one I would say I learned how to insert links in HTML because I had forgotten how to do that.

With BrowserHistory2, I repeated the process from above and did it on my own until I got stuck. I forgot to link the google fonts api link into the header of my index.html page, so when I got to this part I had to look it up. I also got stuck on the part where the images had to be inline with the text and had to look this up as well, again using w3schools.com. When I completed it on my own, I recorded myself, again got stuck and had to do a second recording. I finished in less than 10 minutes the second time. I then watched the solution screencast to make sure I had followed the same steps and process. I definitely learned about the google fonts and how to link them into your file, and how to put the images inline with the patagraphs.

BrowserHistory3 was a bit different, in the fact that I really didn't know where to start. I initally started watching the solution screencast, but only watching enough to get me started, and then trying to finish on my own. I got to a point where I was stuck, my 3 columns were not lining up at all, and the solution screencast didn't seem to be having this problem, so I couldn't use it to help me. I ended up searching on stack overflow and finding a solution for my columns. After this, I continued until I finished the WOD, deleted everything and recorded. The first time I ended up taking about 15 minutes, so I did it again in under 10 minutes. Towards the end, I had to use the Google Dev tools to quickly edit my css in browser to my liking, and then updated the CSS in my file on VS Code. I watched the screencast in full, but his solution was not exactly like mine, I used different html tags and css, but mine ended up looking exactly like the solution so I was satisfied. I would say I learned quite a bit more aobut CSS in this WOD beacause I was having difficulty with my columns and tried so many different things to get them to line up. I had each paragraph sectioned into a div, and then floated all 3 divs to the left. I also used more classes and IDs in this WOD than previous which was good to refresh my memory of them.

I guess any advice I have is to just go through the WOD once without bothering to record, so you can get a feel for how to do it and what you need help with. Then brush up on anything you didn't know how to do. After this, record yourself doing it until you get a time you are happy with.
