---
layout: essay
type: essay
published: true
title: E6 - Reflecting on Assignment 3
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-05-14
labels:
---


1. Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)

My store is an Army surplus store that sells army products ex-military-issued gear such as clothing, tactical gear, uniform patches, etc..

2. Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?

The only major feature Im not sure about is the emailing of the invoice. Im not sure if it working or not. I used the uh mail server and tested it from campus, but I didn't recieve an email when I tried it. I also didnt receive an error message either so I am not sure about it. Also, when a user logs in, it saves their cart information, but if a user has to register first, the cart information is gone when they come back to the store. Also, for some reason the validation window that pops up when registering, that states any errors if a user fails to register, is not popping up, eben though I didn't change any of the code associated with it and it was working earlier.

3. Describe what you are most proud of about your system: 

I really like that the shopping cart works at all... took me so long to figure it out. But i also like that the login button is only displayed if there is no cookie and vice versa for the logout button.

4. Describe what you are least happy with your system:

I am least happy with the overall design. I am not that creative of a person, so making something look good or pretty is not my strong suit.

5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?

This was a lot different because it was much mroe server stuff and overall layout of the site as opposed to just adding a couple new pages. It took more thinking about design on this assignment.

6. When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?

I gave up.. and then came back later and tried a new approach. Ultimately I just watched the screencasts over and over until it finally clicked and got some inspiration from some of the other students on the screencast.

7. Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?

What worked well was not giving up completely. I initially wanted to just take a low grade and move on because I could not figure out the session cart thing. But what worked well is coming back and trying again until it finally clicked for me.

8. Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?

What did not work well was when I initially tried to copy code from the internet and not really understanding what it was doing or how I could modify it to fit my website.

9. What did you learn from doing this assignment?

That coding is hard and that eventually if you keep trying to figure something out it will start to make sense.

10. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change? 

I would have started a little bit sooner and not underestimated how much time it was going to take me.

11. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

a) 40% 

b) 10% 

c) 50% 

12. Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)

I worked on this by myself so 100% for me.
